# tamere-allo-peter

![Your Repository's Stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=tamere-allo-peter&show_icons=true)

## Bio

My first personal projects of importance were a [Zilog
Z80](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z80) CPU disassembler and debugger,
written in the Z80 assembly language, and a Z80 CPU emulator, written
in the [Motorola
MC68000](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motorola_68000) assembly
language. The former one was partially published in print in a monthly
magazine.

Then I started my career, a long time ago, as a system developer,
writing cross-platform utilities in the
[C](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_(programming_language)) language
under [MS-DOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MS-DOS) and
[OS/2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OS/2), covering a range of
subjects : backup, compression, low-level hard disk management, help
desk...

After discovering the [GNU/Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux)
operating system at the end of 1994, I soon moved on to other
opportunities and became [system administrator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_administrator) : GNU/Linux,
[AIX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_AIX),
[HP-UX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HP-UX),
[SunOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SunOS)...

After 10 or so years I moved again to add [network
administration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_administrator)
to my set of official competences.

Fast forward a few years to [team
leader](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Team_leader) status : I had
to oversee a team of 10 people doing system and network
administration. Five years of this and I was done : this job sucked
big time. I love computers, but I hate people !

Moved on to [Team OPT-NC](https://github.com/opt-nc) at the end of
2020, doing mostly sysadmin and development. Happy.

## Free Software

As said earlier I discovered GNU/Linux at the end of 1994. Since then,
[Free Software](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software) became my
_raison de vivre_.

Over the years I authored, contributed to or maintained [a diverse set
of Free Software](http://www.librelogiciel.com/software), mostly
written in the C or
[Python](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python_(programming_language))
programming languages. 

I also wrote a few articles for monthly magazines, and gave some
conferences about Free Software.

The software I wrote that I'm the most proud of :

* JERED : text editor for the GNU/Linux console, largely inspired from
  [E](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E_(PC_DOS)) and variants ;

* ZShell : manipulate [Zope](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zope)
  Object DataBase with Unix shell like commands ;

* ZShellScripts : unify the Zope notion of Scripts and provides
  several Script interpreters : Python, Unix shell, Lisp, Perl, PHP,
  Ruby, and Zope ZShell ;

* Tea4CUPS : highly versatile generic CUPS backend capture & dispatch ;

* pkpgcounter : generic Page Description Language parser which can
  either count the number of pages or compute the percent of ink
  coverage needed to print various types of documents ;

* [PyKota](http://www.pykota.com) : print accounting and print quota
  enforcement for CUPS ;

* Grabslides (available upon request) : reconstruct presentation
  slides from a video source or file ;

* Boxtream (available upon request) : hugely powerful live streaming
  solution for online courses and conferences. It was used to live
  stream and publish several thousand hours for two french
  universities.

* Camtrol (not available for now) : multi-cameras PTZ controlller and video mixing desk. I had
  the immense honor to install it, coupled with Boxtream, at the
  [Parliament of the Republic of Vanuatu](https://parliament.gov.vu/)
  where it was used for a number of years to live stream Parliament's
  chamber sessions or room meetings.

Unfortunately due to time and life constraints, none of these software
is actively maintained anymore. Currently hoping to some day find the
time to work on them again, and move them to GitHub.

## Amusements

Always ready for a good joke :

* [Writing lines the easy way](http://punishment.librelogiciel.com)
* [Google Parody](http://gogol.librelogiciel.com)
